spec_files/README.md, before:

<img src="../documentation/ArtemisLogoSmall.png" align="right" />

# ARTEMIS 3 ![LICENSE](https://img.shields.io/github/license/AresValley/Artemis.svg?style=flat-square) ![ISSUE](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/AresValley/Artemis.svg?style=flat-square) ![LANGUAGE](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/AresValley/Artemis.svg?style=flat-square)

*Radio Signals Recognition Manual*

## ARTEMIS 3 .SPEC FILES

Artemis 3 .spec files are used by the package **pyinstaller** (https://www.pyinstaller.org/) to build a single standalone executable (or a one-dir package). The extreme versatility of this package is the fact that every external dependency is already embedded into the bundle. The interpreter of Python 3 is also included.

## Requirements
- Python 3.7.0+
- Pyinstaller

**IMPORTANT:** *To generate the standalone and the one-dir package, you must use an operating system that coincides with the target one (pyinstaller doesn't allow cross-compilation).* 

## Package Building (standalone aka one-file, high portability, **suggested**)
1. Download a fresh copy of the git repository.
2. Choose the target OS in `spec_files` folder and copy the whole content (except the Artemis_onedir.spec file) into `src`
3. Open a terminal into `src` and run:
```
pyinstaller Artemis.spec
```
4. Copy the `src/themes` folder into `src/dist`.
5. The ready-to-use compiled software is now present into `src/dist` folder.

## Package Building (one-dir, shorter startup time, low portability)
1. Download a fresh copy of the git repository.
2. Choose the target OS in `spec_files` folder and copy the whole content (except the Artemis.spec file) into `src`
3. Open a terminal into `src` and run:
```
pyinstaller Artemis_onedir.spec
```
4. Copy the `src/themes` folder into `src/dist/Artemis`.
5. The ready-to-use compiled software is now present into `src/dist` folder as a bundle. All the libraries are clearly present.

## License
This program (ARTEMIS 3, 2014-2019) is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program. If not, see: www.gnu.org/licenses

## Thanks
* **Marco Dalla Tiezza** - *Artemis I-II developer, DB parsing, Website*
* [**Alessandro Ceccato**](https://github.com/alessandro90 "GitHub profile") - *Artemis III lead developer*
* **Paolo Romani (IZ1MLL)** - *Lead β Tester, RF specialist*
* **Carl Colena** - *Sigidwiki admin, β Tester, Signals expert*
* **Marco Bortoli** - *macOS deployment, β Tester*
* **Pierpaolo Pravatto** - *Wiki page, β Tester*
* **Francesco Capostagno, Luca, Pietro** - *β Tester*

Commit message:

Add a GitHub link. Also improve .spec files (no need to copy source files). Also distinguish from running binary or script in the displayed version.

spec_files/README.md, after:

<img src="../documentation/ArtemisLogoSmall.png" align="right" />

# ARTEMIS 3 ![LICENSE](https://img.shields.io/github/license/AresValley/Artemis.svg?style=flat-square) ![ISSUE](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/AresValley/Artemis.svg?style=flat-square) ![LANGUAGE](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/AresValley/Artemis.svg?style=flat-square)

*Radio Signals Recognition Manual*

## ARTEMIS 3 .SPEC FILES

Artemis 3 .spec files are used by the package **pyinstaller** (https://www.pyinstaller.org/) to build a single standalone executable (or a one-dir package). Every external dependency is already embedded into the bundle. The interpreter of Python 3 is also included.

## Requirements
- Python 3.7.0+
- Pyinstaller

**IMPORTANT:** *To generate the standalone and the one-dir package, you must use an operating system that coincides with the target one (pyinstaller doesn't allow cross-compilation).* 

## Package Building (standalone aka one-file, high portability, **suggested**)
1. Download/clone the git repository.
2. In the `spec_files/<your OS>` folder open a terminal and type
```
pyinstaller Artemis.spec
```
3. An Artemis executable should be produced in the `dist/` folder. The `build/` folder
   can be deleted.

## Package Building (one-dir, shorter startup time, low portability)
1. Download/clone the git repository.
2. In the `spec_files/<your OS>` folder open a terminal and type
```
pyinstaller Artemis_onedir.spec
```
3. An Artemis executable should be produced in  `dist/Artemis/`. The `build/` can
   be deleted.


You can save a copy of the executable in a folder of you choice. At startup it will ask you to download
the database and also warn you that the `themes` folder is missing. To avoid this,
copy `src/Data` and `src/themes` in the folder containing the executable.
